Big Data def: 
It is the amount of data that is so big that it cannot be stored on a single computer.
For e.g. each single trade session has NSE has trade data in GB's.

4 V's of Big Data:
1) Volume : As the term big data says, its big or huge data. One aspect of Big is volume.
	Each organization today has so much data i.e. data about its employees,partners,customers
	that lot of mid sized organizations had data in TB's (1024 GB= 1TB).
	
2) Variety : With the advent of social media and other drivers, the variety of data is only increasing.
		Data like videos,audios,tweets etc are common and few new types trending.
		
3) Velocity: Velocity here refers to the speed at which data is generated these days.
		Every minute 100 of videos are uploaded on you-tube,the number of tweets or
		facebook posts generated is also a good measure of the speed at which this
		data is generated.
		
4) Veracity: This refers to the un-certainity of the data.For e.g. if i would have to write
		a tool which gives me a count of 'Good morning' post on facebook. Now 'Good morning'
		can be expressed in n number of ways for e.g.'GM' or 'Gd mning' and many more.
		So the same sentiment is expressed in many different ways.


Data Storage structures :
However there can be n number of combinations, but widely below are Data storage structures.

1) Structed data : Data stored in RDBMS is an example of structured data, where data is properly
			structed and represented.
			
2) Non-structed data : Data in form of videos,audios etc is a form of non-structed data which cannot be
			represented in rows and columns.
			
3) Semi-structed data : JSON is a perfect example of Semi structed where each json structure can represent a complete
			record with all dependencies. For e.g. 
			Below is a example of JSON which represents a type 'Employee'.As we can see
			it is similar to how Employee would be represented in a POJO. Here the complete
			employee structure is stored as one json and not represented in conventional
			name,value pair
{
	"name": "Vijay"
	"age": 35
	"adddresses":
	{
		"type" : "home"
		"city" : "pune",
		"postcode" : 4000026
	},
	{
			"type" : "office"
			"city" : "pune",
			"postcode" : 4000026
	}
}

Types of NoSQL DB's

1) Key-Value Store 	: Redis
2) Wide-Column Store	: Cassandra
3) Graph Store		: Neo4J
4) Document Store	: MongoDB


MongoDB: MongoBD is a Document Store database, where all information is stored in a form of Documents or JSON structure.
	 Mongo is a schema-less store,where unlike tradional RDBMS,we dont need to prefine schema to store data. So for
	 use cases where the schema changes rapidly,MongoDB is the ideal choice.
	 
Collections: Collections are analogous to a Table in RDBMS.
Document : Document is like a row in Collections.As mentioned it is in form of Json which can be changed.
		The max size of a document allowed is 16 MB.If one has to store a document which is more than this
		permissible limit,it is possible via Grid(Need to know more on this)
		

Features of MongoDB

1) Auto sharding : sharding means splitting and storing of data across machines.For e.g. a collection which has 1000
			documents which have total size of 10 GB, which is beyond the current system's capacity.
			So auto-sharding will ensure that the documents are split across machines and the user 
			does not need to take care of the same.Even though the data is stored across machines, still
			it can be queired af it all the data is on the same system. So,in general MongoDB is able
			to logically bind documents in one collections which are stored across systems.
			One thing to keep in mind is auto-sharding should be enabled before the collection size
			reaches 256 GB(Need to know more on this)


2) Replication and high availability : Mongo provides replication to multiple servers,which can server 2 purposes
					a) In case of central server crash,the replicated servers come into picture
						and makes the data available. If replication is not there, data is
						completely unavailable and it can affect in a big way.
					b) In case of regional reads, the reads can be done on regional servers
						and not the central server,which would mean much faster response
						time as we are avoiding network time.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Things to understand later
		
1) What is aggregation in MongoDB ?
