------------  			Basics -----------------
Virtaualization has to be enabled for Docker to run. 
For windows, it is shown at Task Manager --> Performance --> Virtaualization

When we do docker verion, we get to see version for both client and server. So what is client and 
what is server. Server is always linux and client is Windows. Need to understand a bit more here.

Docker is a client-server architecture, so when we install docker we are installing a client-server
which communicates with the server (hub.docker.com). This communication is required for cases where
we want to pull or push images.


----------------------- LifeCycle of Docker -----------------------------
Image is the basic aspect of Docker. Image can be anything like a centos/alpine/ubuntu linux or a
Tomcat or a MYSQL or anything.

A materialized image is called a Container. Very much similar to Class and Objects in Java.

Images are available of DockerHub, which we need to pull on our machines to run them (via docker pull).

Once we have images on local, below is the lifecyle of the image.

1) 	CREATED : 	Create a Container from a image e.g. docker create <image_name>
				Above will create a new container from the provided image and assign a 
				unique hash<container_id> to the container.
				
2)	RUNNING :	Once the image is created, we can start the image and once started, it goes into 
				the running state. e.g. docker start <container_id>.
				
	docker run <image_id> is a combination of both the above commands i.e. create and start.
	
3)	STOPPED :	We can stop a running container (using docker stop <container_id>), in which
				case it will go in the stopped status.
				
4)	PAUSED	:	We can also pause a running container (though not sure in which use case we may
				want to do this), using docker pause <container_id>, in which case it goes 
				in the paused status. we can unpaunse it using docker unpause <container_id>
				
	Any stopped containers can be started again using docker start <container_id> command and
	it will start up with the state with which it was stopped.
	
5)	REMOVED	:	Once we feel a stopped container is not required any more, we can remove 
				the container using docker rm <container_id>, in which case, this instance
				of image is done away with.
				
				
Important thing to understand here is, till the container is removed, all the data which the container
collected till it was up (like logs created, etc) is available. 
Docker maintains a non persistent storage where it stores data for all running or stopped containers.
Once the container is removed, this non-persistent data is also removed.
This non-persistent data is stored at <tomcat_installation>/<storage> (storage could be found out using docker info).
So till the container is removed, it will keep occupying the space it used while its runs (like logs etc) 


Below commands help to understand container lifecyle.

docker ps 					---> This will list only the active containers (i.e. running and paused)

docker ps -a 				---> This will list all the available containers (i.e. all non removed containers).
															
docker run --rm <image_id>  --> This command should be used with care only for non-prod env's as it will remove
								the container as soon as it is stopped, so should be used only for test images
								etc.


-------------------------------------------



Web-service : If we run 2 docker containers of tomcat on port 8080, it works without any issue. How ?
			  How can 2 services run on same port ? This is because docker uses 2 different IP's for
			  launching these containers but uses the port 8080. By default Tomcat hosts on local 
				machine runs on localhost which resolves to a specific IP, but in this case as the 
				Ip's are different, it is able to launch it.
				We can use docker inspect <container_id> to check metadata respective to the container
				including the IP and port.
				
Important aspect of Docker --
Docker is an isolated environment, so when we install docker on any machine, docker will create an isolated
linux environment inside this machine and will not allow anyone to interact with it. 
For e.g. when we run a tomcat process inside docker, docker will show it runs on 8080 but when you try to
reach out using 'localhost:8080', it wont work because of the isolated environment, i.e. the reason why we
will have to map parts using -p option, so the below will map ports from docker's isolated env to localhost
and once done 'localhost:8080' works. Behind the hoods, docker will create a firewall rule and allow exchange
of ports.

docker run -p 8080:8080 -p 8009:8009 <image_id>				

in the above case we are mapping ports 8080 (Tomcat port)and 8009 (AJP connector port) from isolated docker
env to the localhost

	
--------- Commands ----
To see docker installation meta-data
	docker info 
	
To see docker version
	docker version

To see all the images i have
	docker images

To pull a docker image on local
	docker pull <image_name>
	
To know which all docker containers are running
	docker container ls

To kill or stop a container
	docker kill <container_id>	
	docker stop <container_id>
	
	Both of these will stop the container,however stop will ensure
	graceful shutdown and kill will just kill the container process.
	
To remove an image from local
	docker rmi <image_name>	
	
To run Tomcat image 
	docker run -p <isolated_env_port_no>:<port_no_host_machine> <tomcat_image_id>	
	
	
To find the home or installation directory of the software	
e.g. when we run a tomcat image and need to find directory where tomcat is installed, we use
	docker container exec -it <container_id> bash

	Actually exec -it is to get into the container. Container is like a tight box which does
	not interacts with the outside world. So if we need to get inside the container this command
	is used. In above example , it points us directly  to the home location of the container.
	Use command 'exit' or 'cntl-d' to come out of the Container env.
	
Docker run vs exec
	run command is used to start a new container given an image.
	For e.g. if we have to start a new tomcat process, we will call run command.
	
	exec command is to execute any command inside a running container.	
	If we need to go inside the container running the tomcat process, we will call "exec -it bash",
	and this will interactively start a bash shell inside this container.
	
To copy any file on installed image path, for e.g. when we need to copy war file to Tomcat webapps folder
	docker cp '<local_file_path>' <container_id>:'<path on the container>'
	
To copy any file from container to local file system
	docker cp <containerId>:<path on the container> <local_file_path>	
	
To commit any existing container
	docker commit <container_id> '<name_of_repo>:<Tag_of_repo>'	
	
To find all events happening inside docker on the host
	docker events : This command gives all the events including stopping/starting of container and many
					other events that are associated with docker on the host.

To know stats of CPU and memory usage for a container
	docker stats <container_id>
	
To login to dockerhub from local
	docker login - u <user_name> -p <password>						
					
----------------------------------- Persistence in Docker ------------------------------

As we know data which docker container generates (i.e. logs, cache output etc) are short lived
and they stay only till the container is 'NOT Removed'. However they can be a major drawback as
we may not want to loose logs after the container is removed. For similar situations, Docker
provides us with options of persitence. Broadly, there are 2 flavors of persistence.

1) BindMounts : This helps us to map a folder on the container to the folder on local os.
				for e.g. if we want the logs from the container to be directly available
				on the local, we can use it. Also an very important use case of using it
				is development on local. For instance if we are using a Tomcat docker container,
				we will have to always copy the eclipse code on the docker and test it out on docker.
				instead if we map the webapps folder on container to webapps on local, the copy
				thing completely is eradicated. 



2) Volumes (or Mounts)  : 	Works very similar to a Mounted drive. Here the persistence is completely
							managed by docker, which is a bit different than BindMounts where there is
							a dependency on local file system. As per docker, this is the preferred 
							persistence mechanicm. This method can be chosen when there is a need to
							share data among multiple containers. for e.g. if there are configurations
							which needs to be used across containers, this can be prefered. Mounts 
							are used in various such cases in production and this volumes can be used
							in such cases.
							

Below is the command to map logs folder on container to a new volume called tmpVolume.

	docker run -p 8080:8080 -v tmpVolume:/usr/local/tomcat/logs

Also after this, if we inspect the container we can see the mount type as 'volume',
mapping the respective source and destination folders.

"Mounts": [
            {
                "Type": "volume",
                "Name": "tmpVolume",
                "Source": "/var/lib/docker/volumes/tmpVolume/_data",
                "Destination": "/usr/local/tomcat/logs",
                "Driver": "local",
                "Mode": "z",
                "RW": true,
                "Propagation": ""
            }
        ]							


One important thing to remember is for bindMounts we will need to give an absolute path 
to the local directory, else it considers it as a volume.

------------------------ Docker File -----------------------
Docker file is named as Dockerfile (case sensitive) and it defines metadata about the image.
So for e.g. if i need to have a sample java 'HelloWorld' program to be run on docker, i have to
sort out a few dependencies to get the program running.

First i need a Linux env, second i need java installed on it , third i will need to get my
HelloWorld.java on this env, compile it and finally run the app.

All these dependencies can be sorted out with help of a Dockerfile, which would define all of these.

So a docker image is assimilation of OS, software and its dependencies.

Each command on the docker file mostly creates a new container and then joins the
previous and current image and forms a new image. Possibly it removes the temporary
image which was	created.	

Caching : Docker creates a cache of the Dockerfile once run, so that if we build image 
again, it is much faster as it will only start from the modified part and any of the
previous changes are picked up from the cache. 

Docker file commands

FROM : 
	This is mandatory command and each Dockerfile should start with it.
	This would define the base image from which we need to create a new image.
	Most often we will provide a Base image, however if we want to build a completely
	new image, we can specify SCRATCH, which means there is no base image.
	So, typically for a HelloWorld java progam, we can have base image as any Linux 
	distribution (like Alpine,Ubuntu etc) and install Java on it or can simply build from
	a OpenJDK image which will have a Linux and Java installed on it.
	

RUN	: 
	This command is run only during the buildtime (not runtime) and is typically used
	to decorate the docker image for any dependencies for e.g. if we take base image 
	as Alpine, we need JDK to be installed and RUN command can help installing it.
	by calling 'RUN apk add openjdk8' 

ENV : 
	This is used to set any enviorment variable which is required by the program like
	PATH,CLASSPATH etc. for e.g.
		
	ENV JAVA_HOME /usr/lib/jvm/java-1.8-openjdk
	ENV PATH $PATH:$JAVA_HOME/bin


WORKDIR : 
	This should be the default directory where the user is landed once we get into the shell.
	If we provide any directory same for e.g. '/app/localstorage', this is created by default.
	
EXPOSE : In case of a rest endpoint or a tomcat process, we will need to expose a port of the
			container, this command helps with the same.	

COPY : 
	This is used to copy resources from host machine to the container. So to copy
	java file or an executable jar, this command is used.

ADD	: 
	This is very similar to COPY command, however it provides more functionalities.
	(Need to check)

-------------- Run Time commands -----------------
CMD and ENTRYPOINT both are runtime commands and mostly can be used together in the file
to provide dynamism to the behavior. For e.g. we have a test app for which we need to 
execute a command say echo 'Hello Docker', but we also want to override this command to something
else say 'ls -ltr' , for such cases we will use CMD command. Below is the description of the behavior
how do these commands behave.

USE CASE : To provide a default command and replace it will any command to be provided while running the app.

What to use : 	ONLY CMD.
				command provided while running the app will override the default command in CMD.
				for e.g. docker run <container_id> <OVERRIDE_CMD>
 
USE CASE : To execute a java program but get Main arg list while running the container

What to use :	ONLY ENTRYPOINT
				Command used while running the app will work as an arguments to the command in the entrypoint.
				for e.g. docker run <container_id> <ARG List seperated by spaces>	

USE CASE : To execute a java program with default arg list but to override this list with args provided while running
			the app.

What to use : BOTH CMD and ENTRYPOINT
				argument list provided in CMD becomes the default arg list to ENTRYPOINT cmd , however it will be overridden
				by ags list provided while running the app.
				for e.g. docker run <container_id> <ARG List seperated by spaces>
				

----------------- Commands syntax --------------------
Commands like RUN,CMD and ENTRYPOINT can be run with 2 different types of syntax.

CMD ["executable","param1","param2"] (exec form, this is the preferred form)
CMD ["param1","param2"] (as default parameters to ENTRYPOINT)
CMD command param1 param2 (shell form)

----------------------
			 
MAINTAINER :			 

USER :

VOLUME :




192.168.99.100

----------------- Docker Sub commands -------------------------------------
docker network  : 

is the one of the sub commands which provides info regarding the
network which is used in docker. Remember each container is an isolated environment and it is not
allowed to be reached by any other programs outside its domain. But this is very big contrainst.
So for e.g. we launch a webapp which needs to be called externally using a browser or any other API.
So connectivity to outside world is required. For the very same reason we have networks in Docker.
Networks are controlled via drivers and each type of driver has some characteristics.
Broadly we have 3 types of drivers (host,bridge and overlay). Details about them is described below.

Docker Network :
Basic command to list all networks :
	docker network ls
	
Drivers 
	list of networks on docker displays list of drivers.
	Drivers on a high level is the unit of network which defines scope of
	network, type of network etc.

Driver attributes:
	Scope :	
		Each driver has a Scope (i.e. local and remote)
		Local  = Local network
		Remote = 3rd Party

	Type :
		bridge 	: This is the default driver and any containers which are not specifed any drivers launch
				  with this driver.
			      This will be used when we have single host ( only 1 machine) and we want 2 of the containers
				  on this single host to be talking to each other for e.g. if we launch apache and tomcat 
				  on the given host and we want connectivity between them, we can use this.
				  A Bridge driver essentially creates a new private network which is visible only in the
				  current host. This network is given a IP range or subnet (you can inspect the network and check).
				  Each of the containers hosted on the given bridge will be allocated IP's for the given range
				  So if i launch 2 Tomcat on the bridge, both will have seperate IP's but the port could be same.
				  This private network is directly in touch with the host machine (for e.g. my windows machine).
				  
		host 	: This would be used when we have single host and we dont want containers to be talking to each
				  other.		
		overlay	: It allows to have containers on different hosts talk to each other.


-------------------------------------------
Docker image : This is another subcommand which gives imp info regarding the given image

Docker image history <image_name> : Gives all the meta-data or build info using which			
									the image was built.

Docker image inspect <image_name> : Gives useful info regarding the image.									



-------------------------------------------
Docker container : This subcommand gives specific info for the containers. 
					Please note 'Docker ps' is a short cut for 'Docker container ls'

Docker container prune :
				All the stopped container somehow stay on Docker. 'Docker ps -a'
				gives list of all container irrespective they are stopped or started.
				prune command will destroy all the stopped containers.


-----------------------------------------------
Docker system : This subcommand give info regarding the docker system. It's commands
				like events and info are already part of the shortcuts.

Docker system df :
				This provides info of the components which docker manages like images,
				containers etc.
				
				
---------------------------- Docker Compose --------------------------------------
With Docker compose, we can create a container of Containers. So we have 2 different
isolated containers wrapped up inside another container.

Use-case : 	If i have a project which is having 5 micro-services interacting with each
			other. Now i will have to remember to start all the services individually.
			So if i have to run a integ test which needs all the services to be up,
			i have a problem. For such case, we just build a parent image having 
			all the 5 child micro-services images and we can start and stop the container
			as a single unit.


----------------- 		Need to know --------------------------------------	

Git bash vs Command prompt. what is the difference and which is better.
What is busybox image.
What is docker-machine active command ? What is it used for ?
Need to check difference between exec and run and when to use what ?

Need to know more about exec -it command and what exactly it is used for.

	get the below when ran for image 'tomcat              7.0.99-jdk8-adoptopenjdk-hotspot   176fb5a50a1d'
	the input device is not a TTY.  If you are using mintty, try prefixing the command with 'winpty'
	
	what does this mean ?
	
Need to understand more about Tomcat configurations, it has setting for adding password etc.
	
Google jib is a library which makes easy to build and deploy java apps on a container.
Need to know more.

Java applications are not container aware till Java 11, so need to know more around it and its
limitations.

	
	