Different Asset Classes

Fixed Income (FI) :
	As the name says these types of instruments provide a fixed Income which is decided
	at the start of the tenure. Many comapanies and govt themselves need money to run
	for various reasons. To raised money, they issue Debt instruments i.e. cooperate bond
	or Govt bonds which provide a fixed yield based on tenure. for e.g. it may take x Rs
	and provide 6% income per year for a period of 5 years. For e.g. FD's

	Debt : FI instruments are generally called Debt because the comapany/govt is in-debted
	to provide you the said returns.
	
	
Money Markets (MM) : 
	Money Markets typicallys means Loans and Deposits.
	We all take loans(Home Loans) and do deposits(Fixed Deposits) from various banks.
	Both Fixed income and Money Markets are similar, however the major difference is 
	tenure. Tenure for MM is generally much smaller than the Fixed income instruments. 
	That is the reason MM are considered more safe than FI's however may not provide
	returns as much as a FI security.	
		
		
Equities : 
	Very common of the lot. Shares issued by comapanies i.e. Reliance,TCS e.t.c which
	are traded in the market.



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Derivatives : 
		Derivatives is a Contract between 2 parties which value derives from the
		underlying asset. As the name says Derivatives which means the value is always
		DERIVED (from the underlying asset). 
		For e.g. a Contract between 2 parties that Party A will Purchase 100 IBM shares
		from Party B after 1 month at a price of Rs 200 per share.
		In this example 2 parties are getting into an agreement and as we can see the
		underlying asset class is equity (IBM).


Types of Derivatives :
		OPTIONS (Put/Call):
		
		Option is a contract between 2 parties (as it is a derivate) in which one of the
		party has an OPTION to exercise a contract against a said premium. For e.g.

		Party A & B get into a contract that A will buy 100 IBM shares from B after 
		a month for the price of Rs 200 per share.
		Above is a contract which Party A is buying from Party B at a premium of Rs 50.
		In technical terms it means Party A is buying a PUT Option from Party B at a 
		premium of Rs 50.
		PUT Option because Party A here is agreeing to Sell (or Put) his shares.
		Now why is Party A paying premium of Rs 50 ? This is because it then gives him
		the right to execise or execute the order or not materilize the contract at maturity.

		If the current price of share is 180 Rs and Party A feels it will go up from this level
		after a month, it would typically get into a OPTIONS contract because if the price
		goes down say to 170 it will not sell it and bear the brunt of Rs 50 (premium).

		Also if in the above example if Party A was buying from Party B, then it would had been
		a CALL OPTION. i.e. Party A sells Call Option to Party B.

Types of OPTIONS :
		Vanilla :		
			
		